Since 1824,
doctors have recommended
cod liver oil,
a potent source of Vitamin D,
to build strong bones in children
who are not exposed to much sunlight.
Other dietary sources for this
important vitamin include:
fatty fish, eggs,
fortified milk
and orange juice.
All Vitamin D begins with sunlight.
For example,
the Vitamin D we get from fish
comes from algae they ate
that made Vitamin D from sunlight.
We also make our own Vitamin D from sunlight.
When your skin is exposed
to the sun,
ultraviolet rays convert a form of
cholesterol in the upper layer of skin
into Vitamin D.
All Vitamin D has to be
converted into an active form
by your liver and kidneys
before your body can use it.
The primary job of this active form,
called calcitriol,
is to regulate your body’s levels of
calcium and phosphorous.
Calcitriol stimulates your body to absorb calcium,
which also increases phosphorous absorption.
It also stimulates the breakdown of old bone,
releasing calcium and phosphorous,
and the building of new bone.
Where you live,
the amount of sunlight each day,
and how long your skin is exposed
all affect how much Vitamin D you produce.
People with more melanin
or pigment in their skin
need longer exposure than those with less melanin,
which acts as a light filter.